# Impact of Criminal Policy Changes on Crime Rate in the United States

According to the Wall Street Journal opinion [Rising Crime Rates Are a Policy Choice](https://www.wsj.com/articles/safe-streets-are-a-policy-choice-incapacitation-incarceration-state-federal-prison-violent-crime-1990s-reagan-bush-barr-obama-sentencing-bail-11666785403), strict U.S. incarceration laws lead to a decrease in crime rates. The article suggests that the implementation of stricter criminal justice policies via a conservative agenda has consistently kept violent crime in check in the past. It claims that in 1991 five out of eight released felons were arrested again for new crimes within three years which coined the term ‘revolving door policy’ meaning weak incarceration laws lead to an increase in crime by repeat offenders. The George H.W. Bush administration was the first to double the federal prison capacity – a practice that was continued by presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush from 1991 to 2013. The article claims that as a result of these practices, violent crime plummeted throughout these 23 years as the number of prisoners went from 800,000 to 1.6 million. Furthermore, the article claims that crime rates resurged as progressive policies were reinstated during the Obama administration. These historical trends have ultimately cultivated a popular narrative where U.S. crime rates are said to be directly influenced by the severity of incarceration laws. This project is to perform a statistical analysis of these claims. We want data to tell a story and see if that story matches with this opinion.

Link to the rendered book: <https://naishadhparmar.github.io/Crime-Data-Analysis/>